---
layout: post
title:  "Reflection: The Death of My Computer"
---

### Prologue
Last month, I lost my MacBook Pro to unknown causes, perhaps forever. It effectively halted my first ambitious hands-on cybersecurity lab project, and I’ve had to make do with my iPad to post on this blog as well as to complete other important school and personal tasks. 

The diagnosis was a complete breakdown of the hardware. No power supply flowing into the device, and I would have to get the motherboard repaired or completely replaced. 

The reason I didn’t get it fixed was simple. It would take 3 to 4 weeks to repair the motherboard, which by then I would have already flown home to Korea. It was also just too expensive without AppleCare. Moreover, I started having doubts about the MacBook’s durability. I had used it for 3 years, which seemed too short for a laptop computer. 

This is an entry to probe just how and why this mysterious death occurred. To this day I still don’t know. Expert opinion around me (namely the repair store guy and my aunt and uncle) could not point out how such a complete hardware failure had occurred without any physical damage. 

### What Happened
On April 25th, I started a new vulnerability management lab project on my MacBook. I downloaded the software and played around with the new lab environment.

I worked on this at a cafe and went back home after downloading and testing everything. At home, I reopened the laptop to continue with the next steps. It was working absolutely fine until this point, until I left my workspace for around 20 minutes and came back to find my laptop displaying an ominous black screen.

I realized very quickly this was not a power or battery problem. I didn’t hear any sounds. The first few key presses did not wake it up. Charging didn’t work. So I had to troubleshoot further. I googled for steps to take and tried everything I read. I was pressing on multiple keys for as long as 20 seconds and still my laptop did not respond. 

The following day, immediately took it to a repair shop after class. The conclusion of the 3-hour visit was that there was no way the laptop could be fixed unless the whole motherboard was fixed. I asked the engineer, explaining my circumstances, what could have gone wrong, but he was just as perplexed as me. 

### Possible Causes
Although I was told software can rarely lead to a breakdown to this severity, I still had my doubts. I had downloaded multiple pieces of software to run, created at least two virtual machines and was jumping back and forth between the various programs to test out new functions. It was probably a record volume of load on the machine. 

Software was probably not a direct and monolithic cause of the death. However, after some research I concluded that it could have triggered my laptop to break down after my years of malpractice and subpar treatment.


### Bad Practices 
#### 1. Heat
While working on the lab in the cafe, the fan was running wildly. While this is probably not the sole cause of the damage, I had been ignoring and underestimating how detrimental heat could be to a computer. 

I had been putting my laptop on plushy surfaces like my bed or closing the lid while it was radiating heat. This, little did I know, could disturb the circulation of air and thus heat control. Nor was I providing my laptop with occasional time to rest when it was suffering from overheating. 

#### Repaired Logic Board
The previous year I ~~a gust of wind~~ had spilled a cup of water which seeped through the bottom of my laptop, and I had to replace the motherboard to get my laptop running again. This was only 8 months prior to the incident. How could the laptop only last for 8 months after its rebirth?

I found a blog post outlining an incident similar to mine. A recently repaired device, brought down to its knees only after several months of use. It pointed out Apple’s repair policy which allows it to use refurbished parts to change out damaged components instead of actually fixing it. 

Official sources and online forums proclaimed that refurbished doesn’t mean bad quality or faulty, but after some more research I couldn’t help but think that the refurbished motherboard had not performed up to standards. This is especially true compared to the pricing of the fix. I still do not have enough proof to derive a causal relationship between the repair and the breakdown, but it did made me think I would try my best to never send my laptop to the repair shop.


### Conclusion
In conclusion, I think having handled my Mac roughly and making it go through board repairs significantly shortened its lifespan. But I also do think I got unlucky in general. 

I’ll have a new machine when I go back to Korea, and I’ll treat this one with the utmost care. 


