—
layout: post
title:  ”Vulnerability Management Lab #1 Setting Up“
—

# Vulnerability Management Lab #1 Setting Up



This blog series will cover the process of setting up and running a vulnerability managmenet lab as practice and application of the IT and cybersecurity concepts I’ve learned over the past few months. While getting the hands-on practice, I also wanted to document the process to leave a referenceable record of what I’ve learned, understood, and struggled with, and to look back on them to enhance my learning. 

I’m using the shellsharks.com blog VM lab bootcamp as the main source material for this lab. The reason I chose this source is because it explained what vulnerability managmenet is and the steps to set up a lab clearly. But above all, it seemed more suitable because it felt less technically dense than running a SOC lab or a broadly defined infosec lab, while also covering various defensive and offensive functions in a more beginner-friendly way.

As a disclaimer, what I’ve written here is basically a reiteration of the steps I’ve followed in the shellsharks VM lab bootcamp, so content-wise, it is the same stuff. However, I wanted to go over the steps in my own words, explaining the role of each step, and what I was stuck on, and what I learned, to make sure I really understood the steps I followed. It is not in any means to claim that this lab program as my own creation; all credit to the author of Shellsharks.

Enough with the intro, below is the record of what I’ve got done today (mostly just downloading stuff) to complete the first step of the lab: actually setting it up.


1. First, I downloaded VMware Fusion as my virtualization tool. 

2. I then looked at the Kali Linux images to be the scanner host. I went for the one pre-built VMware and VirtualBox, so I didn’t have to do the installing manually; The pre-configured .vmwarevm set up automatically once I opened the zip file. 

3. I logged in with kali / kali and immediately changed my password using the command passwd.

4. I enabled “Share with my Mac” to use all functionalities and updated the VM by running sudo apt-get update and sudo apt-get upgrade.

5. Next, I installed Nessus, the vulnerability scanning tool. I registered first for an activation code, opened the download link within Kali and downloaded the Nessus-10.5.1-debian10_amd64.deb binary. Then I executed the commands in Kali to start the scanner service, and opened up https://kali:8834/. in my Kali browser, and ignored the certificate-related security warning as instructed. Then I followed the official guidelines to install Nessus Essentials. *Downloading Nessus was a bit confusing because of the command line stuff, but I figured it out step by step.

6. Next, I downloaded Metasploitable 2, which took 2 hours but otherwise it was easy. Once downloaded I executed the .vmx file which automatically opened in VMware fusion. I logged in with msfadmin / msfadmin and changed the password afterwards.

7. Lastly, I used the ping command to check the connectivity between Metaspoloitable 2 and Kali (ping -c 1 IPADDRESS). Before that, I had to use the ifconfig command to find out the IP addresses of both systems. I saw “1 packets transmitted, 1 received…” for pings both ways to see they were connected. 

8. Another confusing thing at this point was my mouse cursor kept disappearing when working with Metasploitable VM. But I found out pressing command+control restores it. 
 
  9. Other things learnt:
Network Address Translation (NAT): assigns a single public address to a local IP to enable access to the Internet. Solves the IPv4 address exhaustion problem by using only one Internet-routable IP address for an entire private network.
